Alzheimer's disease (AD) comprises two major pathological hallmarks: extraneuronal deposition of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptides ("senile plaques") and intraneuronal aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau ("neurofibrillary tangles"). Aβ is derived from sequential cleavage of the β-amyloid precursor protein by β- and γ-secretases, while aggregated tau is hyperphosphorylated in AD. Mounting evidence suggests that dysregulated trafficking of these AD-related proteins contributes to AD pathogenesis. Rab proteins are small GTPases that function as master regulators of vesicular transport and membrane trafficking. Multiple Rab GTPases have been implicated in AD-related protein trafficking and their expression has been observed to be altered in postmortem AD brain. Here we review current implicated roles of Rab GTPase dysregulation in AD pathogenesis. Further elucidation of the pathophysiological role of Rab GTPases will likely reveal novel targets for AD therapeutics.
Phosphorylation of the microtubule associated protein tau is an important modulator of its normal physiological functioning; however, it may also contribute to tau mis-folding and aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases, which are collectively termed tauopathies. As such, the investigations of tau phosphorylation and kinases that modify tau are important in trying to elucidate tau function and the mechanisms involved in the development of tauopathies. We have recently demonstrated that the putative tau kinase leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 is capable of phosphorylating tau at threonines 169 and 175 in vitro, and it has been previously shown that hyperphosphorylation at threonine 175 occurs in filamentous tau species from Alzheimer's brain tissue. These prior findings suggest that further studies of phosphorylation of tau at these epitopes may shed light on the pathogenesis of tauopathies. There is, however, a lack of tools available to analyze phosphorylation of tau at these sites. This study aimed to bridge that resource gap by generating monoclonal antibodies against tau phosphorylated at either threonine 169 or 175. While we did not succeed in generating a phospho-specific antibody, we did generate an antibody, MHT2, which is specific for human tau encompassing the threonine 169/175 epitope region. Immunostaining of transgenic rTg4510 mouse tissue as well as human tauopathy cases with MHT2 indicates that this antibody selectively detects cytoplasmic tau in the form of neurofibrillary tangles, and that it may have a further specificity pertaining to severity of disease progression, either because of phosphorylation or conformational bias.
The neurokinin 1 receptor with the natural substrate substance P is one of the intensely studied receptors among the neurokinin receptors. The intracellular signaling mechanism uses G protein-coupled transduction regulating various physiological processes from nausea to Alzheimer's disease. The neurokinin 1 receptor plays a significant role in neuroinflammation-mediated alterations in neural circuitry. Neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists are selective, potent and exhibited efficacy in animal models of nervous system disorders. Evolving data now strengthen the viewpoint of brain substance P/neurokinin 1 receptor axis-mediated action in neural circuit dysfunction. Thus, a deep-rooted analysis of disease mechanism in which the neurokinin 1 receptor is involved is necessary for augmenting disease models which encourage the pharmaceutical industry to intensify the research pipeline. This review is an attempt to outline the concept of neurokinin 1 receptor signaling interlinked to the brain innate immune system. We also uncover the mechanisms of the neurokinin 1 receptor involved in neurological disorder and various methods of modulating the neurokinin 1 receptor, which may result in therapeutic action.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common (60% to 80%) age-related disease associated with dementia and is characterized by a deterioration of behavioral and cognitive capacities leading to death in few years after diagnosis, mainly due to complications from chronic illness. The characteristic hallmarks of the disease are extracellular senile plaques (SPs) and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) with neuropil threads, which are a direct result of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing to Aβ, and τ hyperphosphorylation. However, many indirect underlying processes play a role in this event. One of these underlying mechanisms leading to these histological hallmarks is the uncontrolled hyperactivation of a family of cysteine proteases called calpains. Under normal physiological condition calpains participate in many processes of cells' life and their activation is tightly controlled. However, with an increase in age, increased oxidative stress and other excitotoxicity assaults, this regulatory system becomes impaired and result in increased activation of these proteases involving them in the pathogenesis of various diseases including neurodegeneration like AD. Reviewed here is a pool of data on the implication of calpains in the pathogenesis of AD, the underlying molecular mechanism, and the potential of targeting these enzymes for AD therapeutics.
Aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides represents a crucial step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Compelling evidence from preclinical studies has established that statins may reduce amyloidogenesis and Aβ-mediated neurodegeneration, supporting a potential role of statin treatment in the prevention of AD. Different statins have been shown to interfere indirectly with Aβ production and clearance through either cholesterol-dependent or cholesterol-independent mechanisms. However, whether there may be a direct interaction between statins and Aβ metabolism is still unclear.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a common type of dementia. The core clinical symptoms are visual hallucinations, fluctuating cognition with pronounced variations in attention, REM sleep behaviour disorder and parkinsonism. Early diagnosis and differentiation from Alzheimer's disease can be challenging, especially when the core clinical symptoms are modest or only partly present. In this case report, we describe two patients, who had unexplained loss of consciousness and visual hallucinations, which were the early signs of DLB in absence of parkinsonism.
Several studies report the effects of excessive use of sugars and sweeteners in the diet. These include obesity, cardiac diseases, diabetes, and even lymphomas, leukemias, cancers of the bladder and brain, chronic fatigue syndrome, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, autism, and systemic lupus. On the other hand, each sugar and sweetener has a distinct metabolic assimilation process, and its chemical structure plays an important role in this process. Several scientific papers present the biological effects of the sugars and sweeteners in relation to their chemical structure. One important issue dealing with the sugars is the degree of similarity in their structures, focusing mostly on optical isomerism. Finding and developing new sugars and sweeteners with desired properties is an emerging research area, in which in silico approaches play an important role.
Microtubule-associated Tau protein plays a key role in assembling microtubule and modulating the functional organization of the neuron and developing axonal morphology, growth, and polarity. The pathological Tau can aggregate into cross-beta amyloid as one of the hallmarks for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, one of the top priorities in AD research is to figure out the structural model of Tau aggregation and to screen the inhibitors. The latest generation intrinsically disordered protein specific force field ff14IDPSFF significantly improved the distributions of heterogeneous conformations for intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs). Here, the molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with three force fields of ff14SB, ff14IDPs, and ff14IDPSFF were employed to investigate the secondary structures transition of Tau (267-312) fragment. The results indicate that ff14IDPSFF can generate more heterogeneous conformers, and the predicted secondary structural distribution is closer to that of the experimental observation. In addition, predicted secondary chemical shifts from ff14IDPSFF are the most approach to those of experiment. Secondary structures transition kinetics for Tau(267-312) with ff14IDPSFF shows that the secondary structures were gradually transformed from α-helix to β-strand and the β-strand located at the regions of the residues 274-280 and residues 305-311. Besides, the driving force for the secondary structures transition of Tau(267-312) is mainly hydrophobic interactions which located at hexa-peptides
Opioid overdoses recently became the leading cause of accidental death in the US, marking an increase in the severity of the opioid use disorder (OUD) epidemic that is impacting global health. Current treatment protocols for OUD are limited to opioid medications, including methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone. While these medications are effective in many cases, new treatments are required to more effectively address the rising societal and interpersonal costs associated with OUD. In this article, we review the opioid and cholinergic systems, and examine the potential of acetylcholine (ACh) as a treatment target for OUD. The cholinergic system includes enzymes that synthesize and degrade ACh and receptors that mediate the effects of ACh. ACh is involved in many central nervous system functions that are critical to the development and maintenance of OUD, such as reward and cognition. Medications that target the cholinergic system have been approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, tobacco use disorder, and nausea. Clinical and preclinical studies suggest that medications such as cholinesterase inhibitors and scopolamine, which target components of the cholinergic system, show promise for the treatment of OUD and further investigations are warranted.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) represent a special group of noncoding single-stranded highly stable ribonucleic acid entities abundant in the eukaryotic transcriptome. These circular forms of RNAs are significantly enriched in human brain and retinal tissues. However, the biological evolution and function of these circRNAs are poorly understood. Recent reports showed circRNA to be an important player in the development of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. With the progression of age, circRNA level increases in the brain and also in age-associated neurological disorder like Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, inflammatory neuropathy, nervous system neoplasms, and prion diseases. One highly represented circRNA in the human brain and retina is a ciRS-7 (CDR1as) which acts as an endogenous, anticomplementary miRNA inhibitor or "sponge" to quench the normal functioning of miRNA-7. Low CDR1as level can lead to increase in miR-7 expression which downregulates the activity of ubiquitin protein ligase A (UBE2A), an important AD target, functionally involved in clearing toxic amyloid peptides from AD brain. This chapter focuses on the functional relationship of circRNA with AD and interplay of miRNA-mRNA-mediated genetic regulatory networks. Our conceptual understanding also suggests that circRNA can be considered as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target in AD diagnosis and treatment.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are abundant in the brain and are often expressed in complex spatiotemporal patterns that coincide with distinct developmental transitions. This suggests that circRNAs play a significant role in the central nervous system. This book chapter will review research progress into the function of circRNAs during neuronal development. The major themes to be discussed are the enrichment of circRNAs in the synapse and their possible contributions to synaptopathologies, in addition to the findings that neural circRNAs accumulate with age and appear beneficial for neuronal repair. Although more research is needed, some of the possible functions of circRNAs with in the brain are already beginning to come to light.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease characterized by excessive accumulation of the amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) in the brain, which has been considered to mediate the neuroinflammation process. Microglial activation is the main component of neuroimmunoregulation. In recent years, exosomes isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hucMSC-exosomes) have been demonstrated to mimic the therapeutic effects of hucMSCs in many inflammation-related diseases. In this study, exosomes from the supernatant of hucMSCs were injected into AD mouse models. We observed that hucMSC-exosomes injection could repair cognitive disfunctions and help to clear Aβ deposition in these mice. Moreover, we found that hucMSC-exosomes injection could modulate the activation of microglia in brains of the mice to alleviated neuroinflammation. The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in peripheral blood and brains of mice were increased and the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines were decreased. We also treated BV2 cells with hucMSC-exosomes in culture medium. HucMSC-exosomes also had inflammatory regulating effects to alternatively activate microglia and modulate the levels of inflammatory cytokines in vitro.
Information about how physical exercise affects patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still missing. This study evaluated the impact of multicomponent exercise training on cognition and brain structure in aMCI subjects with cerebral spinal fluid positive AD biomarkers.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been recently shown to improve language outcomes in primary progressive aphasia (PPA) but most studies are small and the influence of PPA variant is unknown.
Caregivers of individuals with dementia are at heightened risk for stress-related mental and physical illnesses, and this problem is growing. There is a critical need to develop effective interventions for caregivers. This study tested whether a 2-day intervention improved psychological health in caregivers of individuals with dementia.
To investigate whether baseline subjective cognitive complaints (SCCs) predict longitudinal decline on neuropsychological testing and whether SCC increases longitudinally, in the setting of high levels of amyloid burden.
Tissue engineering and the tissue engineering model have shown promise in improving methods of drug delivery, drug action, and drug discovery in pharmaceutical research for the attenuation of the central nervous system inflammatory response. Such inflammation contributes to the lack of regenerative ability of neural cells, as well as the temporary and permanent loss of function associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and traumatic brain injury. This review is focused specifically on the recent advances in the tissue engineering model made by altering scaffold biophysical and biochemical properties for use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. A portion of this article will also be spent on the review of recent progress made in extracellular matrix decellularization as a new and innovative scaffold for disease treatment.
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a powerful technology for rapid volumetric imaging in biomedicine. The bright field imaging approach of conventional OCT systems is based on the detection of directly backscattered light, thereby waiving the wealth of information contained in the angular scattering distribution. Here we demonstrate that the unique features of few-mode fibers (FMF) enable simultaneous bright and dark field (BRAD) imaging for OCT. As backscattered light is picked up by the different modes of a FMF depending upon the angular scattering pattern, we obtain access to the directional scattering signatures of different tissues by decoupling illumination and detection paths. We exploit the distinct modal propagation properties of the FMF in concert with the long coherence lengths provided by modern wavelength-swept lasers to achieve multiplexing of the different modal responses into a combined OCT tomogram. We demonstrate BRAD sensing for distinguishing differently sized microparticles and showcase the performance of BRAD-OCT imaging with enhanced contrast for ex vivo tumorous tissue in glioblastoma and neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease.
Balint's syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by a triad of simultanagnosia, optic apraxia, and ocular apraxia. The syndrome manifests when there is an injury to the posterior parietal and occipital lobes and is often bilateral. Several causes of this syndrome were published in the literature, such as trauma, infarctions, infections, tumors, and pre-eclampsia. It can also be the presenting feature of several neurodegenerative disorders, such as atypical Alzheimer's disease. We report a case of a 62-year-old lady who presented with simultanagnosia, optic apraxia, and ocular ataxia which are the typical signs and symptoms of this syndrome. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed severe affection of the visual-spatial function with intact memory, language, and cognition. Brain imaging confirmed atrophy and decreased perfusion in the posterior parietal and occipital lobes. No underlying cause could be identified to explain the brain parenchymal atrophy. The follow-up neuropsychological assessment and brain imaging did not show any progression confirming the static course of the disease.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular disease. However, the precise mechanism underlying the effects of glucose management on brain abnormalities is not fully understood. The differential impacts of glucose alteration on brain changes in patients with and without cognitive impairment are also unclear. This cross-sectional study included 57 older type 2 diabetes patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or normal cognition (NC). We examined the effects of hypoglycemia, postprandial hyperglycemia and glucose fluctuations on regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) and brain atrophy among these patients. In a multiple regression analysis, postprandial hyperglycemia was independently associated with frontal WMH in the AD patients. In addition, postprandial hyperglycemia was significantly associated with brain atrophy, regardless of the presence of cognitive decline. Altogether, our findings indicate that postprandial hyperglycemia is associated with WMH in AD patients but not NC patients, which suggests that AD patients are more susceptible to postprandial hyperglycemia associated with WMH.