(Circular RNAs (circRNAs) represent a special group of noncoding single-stranded highly stable ribonucleic acid entities abundant in the eukaryotic transcriptome. These circular forms of RNAs are significantly enriched in human brain and retinal tissues. However, the biological evolution and function of these circRNAs are poorly understood. Recent reports showed circRNA to be an important player in the development of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. With the progression of age, circRNA level increases in the brain and also in age-associated neurological disorder like Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, inflammatory neuropathy, nervous system neoplasms, and prion diseases. One highly represented circRNA in the human brain and retina is a ciRS-7 (CDR1as) which acts as an endogenous, anticomplementary miRNA inhibitor or "sponge" to quench the normal functioning of miRNA-7. Low CDR1as level can lead to increase in miR-7 expression which downregulates the activity of ubiquitin protein ligase A (UBE2A), an important AD target, functionally involved in clearing toxic amyloid peptides from AD brain. This chapter focuses on the functional relationship of circRNA with AD and interplay of miRNA-mRNA-mediated genetic regulatory networks. Our conceptual understanding also suggests that circRNA can be considered as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target in AD diagnosis and treatment.,154060)
(Caregivers of individuals with dementia are at heightened risk for stress-related mental and physical illnesses, and this problem is growing. There is a critical need to develop effective interventions for caregivers. This study tested whether a 2-day intervention improved psychological health in caregivers of individuals with dementia.,554)
(Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are abundant in the brain and are often expressed in complex spatiotemporal patterns that coincide with distinct developmental transitions. This suggests that circRNAs play a significant role in the central nervous system. This book chapter will review research progress into the function of circRNAs during neuronal development. The major themes to be discussed are the enrichment of circRNAs in the synapse and their possible contributions to synaptopathologies, in addition to the findings that neural circRNAs accumulate with age and appear beneficial for neuronal repair. Although more research is needed, some of the possible functions of circRNAs with in the brain are already beginning to come to light.,207)
(Phosphorylation of the microtubule associated protein tau is an important modulator of its normal physiological functioning; however, it may also contribute to tau mis-folding and aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases, which are collectively termed tauopathies. As such, the investigations of tau phosphorylation and kinases that modify tau are important in trying to elucidate tau function and the mechanisms involved in the development of tauopathies. We have recently demonstrated that the putative tau kinase leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 is capable of phosphorylating tau at threonines 169 and 175 in vitro, and it has been previously shown that hyperphosphorylation at threonine 175 occurs in filamentous tau species from Alzheimer's brain tissue. These prior findings suggest that further studies of phosphorylation of tau at these epitopes may shed light on the pathogenesis of tauopathies. There is, however, a lack of tools available to analyze phosphorylation of tau at these sites. This study aimed to bridge that resource gap by generating monoclonal antibodies against tau phosphorylated at either threonine 169 or 175. While we did not succeed in generating a phospho-specific antibody, we did generate an antibody, MHT2, which is specific for human tau encompassing the threonine 169/175 epitope region. Immunostaining of transgenic rTg4510 mouse tissue as well as human tauopathy cases with MHT2 indicates that this antibody selectively detects cytoplasmic tau in the form of neurofibrillary tangles, and that it may have a further specificity pertaining to severity of disease progression, either because of phosphorylation or conformational bias.,864)
(Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a common type of dementia. The core clinical symptoms are visual hallucinations, fluctuating cognition with pronounced variations in attention, REM sleep behaviour disorder and parkinsonism. Early diagnosis and differentiation from Alzheimer's disease can be challenging, especially when the core clinical symptoms are modest or only partly present. In this case report, we describe two patients, who had unexplained loss of consciousness and visual hallucinations, which were the early signs of DLB in absence of parkinsonism.,304)
(Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common (60% to 80%) age-related disease associated with dementia and is characterized by a deterioration of behavioral and cognitive capacities leading to death in few years after diagnosis, mainly due to complications from chronic illness. The characteristic hallmarks of the disease are extracellular senile plaques (SPs) and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) with neuropil threads, which are a direct result of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing to Aβ, and τ hyperphosphorylation. However, many indirect underlying processes play a role in this event. One of these underlying mechanisms leading to these histological hallmarks is the uncontrolled hyperactivation of a family of cysteine proteases called calpains. Under normal physiological condition calpains participate in many processes of cells' life and their activation is tightly controlled. However, with an increase in age, increased oxidative stress and other excitotoxicity assaults, this regulatory system becomes impaired and result in increased activation of these proteases involving them in the pathogenesis of various diseases including neurodegeneration like AD. Reviewed here is a pool of data on the implication of calpains in the pathogenesis of AD, the underlying molecular mechanism, and the potential of targeting these enzymes for AD therapeutics.,38570)
(The neurokinin 1 receptor with the natural substrate substance P is one of the intensely studied receptors among the neurokinin receptors. The intracellular signaling mechanism uses G protein-coupled transduction regulating various physiological processes from nausea to Alzheimer's disease. The neurokinin 1 receptor plays a significant role in neuroinflammation-mediated alterations in neural circuitry. Neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists are selective, potent and exhibited efficacy in animal models of nervous system disorders. Evolving data now strengthen the viewpoint of brain substance P/neurokinin 1 receptor axis-mediated action in neural circuit dysfunction. Thus, a deep-rooted analysis of disease mechanism in which the neurokinin 1 receptor is involved is necessary for augmenting disease models which encourage the pharmaceutical industry to intensify the research pipeline. This review is an attempt to outline the concept of neurokinin 1 receptor signaling interlinked to the brain innate immune system. We also uncover the mechanisms of the neurokinin 1 receptor involved in neurological disorder and various methods of modulating the neurokinin 1 receptor, which may result in therapeutic action.,831)
(Microtubule-associated Tau protein plays a key role in assembling microtubule and modulating the functional organization of the neuron and developing axonal morphology, growth, and polarity. The pathological Tau can aggregate into cross-beta amyloid as one of the hallmarks for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, one of the top priorities in AD research is to figure out the structural model of Tau aggregation and to screen the inhibitors. The latest generation intrinsically disordered protein specific force field ff14IDPSFF significantly improved the distributions of heterogeneous conformations for intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs). Here, the molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with three force fields of ff14SB, ff14IDPs, and ff14IDPSFF were employed to investigate the secondary structures transition of Tau (267-312) fragment. The results indicate that ff14IDPSFF can generate more heterogeneous conformers, and the predicted secondary structural distribution is closer to that of the experimental observation. In addition, predicted secondary chemical shifts from ff14IDPSFF are the most approach to those of experiment. Secondary structures transition kinetics for Tau(267-312) with ff14IDPSFF shows that the secondary structures were gradually transformed from α-helix to β-strand and the β-strand located at the regions of the residues 274-280 and residues 305-311. Besides, the driving force for the secondary structures transition of Tau(267-312) is mainly hydrophobic interactions which located at hexa-peptides,869)
(Aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides represents a crucial step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Compelling evidence from preclinical studies has established that statins may reduce amyloidogenesis and Aβ-mediated neurodegeneration, supporting a potential role of statin treatment in the prevention of AD. Different statins have been shown to interfere indirectly with Aβ production and clearance through either cholesterol-dependent or cholesterol-independent mechanisms. However, whether there may be a direct interaction between statins and Aβ metabolism is still unclear.,633)
