(To investigate whether baseline subjective cognitive complaints (SCCs) predict longitudinal decline on neuropsychological testing and whether SCC increases longitudinally, in the setting of high levels of amyloid burden.,1434)
(Balint's syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by a triad of simultanagnosia, optic apraxia, and ocular apraxia. The syndrome manifests when there is an injury to the posterior parietal and occipital lobes and is often bilateral. Several causes of this syndrome were published in the literature, such as trauma, infarctions, infections, tumors, and pre-eclampsia. It can also be the presenting feature of several neurodegenerative disorders, such as atypical Alzheimer's disease. We report a case of a 62-year-old lady who presented with simultanagnosia, optic apraxia, and ocular ataxia which are the typical signs and symptoms of this syndrome. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed severe affection of the visual-spatial function with intact memory, language, and cognition. Brain imaging confirmed atrophy and decreased perfusion in the posterior parietal and occipital lobes. No underlying cause could be identified to explain the brain parenchymal atrophy. The follow-up neuropsychological assessment and brain imaging did not show any progression confirming the static course of the disease.,1886)
(Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a powerful technology for rapid volumetric imaging in biomedicine. The bright field imaging approach of conventional OCT systems is based on the detection of directly backscattered light, thereby waiving the wealth of information contained in the angular scattering distribution. Here we demonstrate that the unique features of few-mode fibers (FMF) enable simultaneous bright and dark field (BRAD) imaging for OCT. As backscattered light is picked up by the different modes of a FMF depending upon the angular scattering pattern, we obtain access to the directional scattering signatures of different tissues by decoupling illumination and detection paths. We exploit the distinct modal propagation properties of the FMF in concert with the long coherence lengths provided by modern wavelength-swept lasers to achieve multiplexing of the different modal responses into a combined OCT tomogram. We demonstrate BRAD sensing for distinguishing differently sized microparticles and showcase the performance of BRAD-OCT imaging with enhanced contrast for ex vivo tumorous tissue in glioblastoma and neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease.,5157)
(Information about how physical exercise affects patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still missing. This study evaluated the impact of multicomponent exercise training on cognition and brain structure in aMCI subjects with cerebral spinal fluid positive AD biomarkers.,5576)
(Several studies report the effects of excessive use of sugars and sweeteners in the diet. These include obesity, cardiac diseases, diabetes, and even lymphomas, leukemias, cancers of the bladder and brain, chronic fatigue syndrome, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, autism, and systemic lupus. On the other hand, each sugar and sweetener has a distinct metabolic assimilation process, and its chemical structure plays an important role in this process. Several scientific papers present the biological effects of the sugars and sweeteners in relation to their chemical structure. One important issue dealing with the sugars is the degree of similarity in their structures, focusing mostly on optical isomerism. Finding and developing new sugars and sweeteners with desired properties is an emerging research area, in which in silico approaches play an important role.,2786)
(Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been recently shown to improve language outcomes in primary progressive aphasia (PPA) but most studies are small and the influence of PPA variant is unknown.,669)
(Opioid overdoses recently became the leading cause of accidental death in the US, marking an increase in the severity of the opioid use disorder (OUD) epidemic that is impacting global health. Current treatment protocols for OUD are limited to opioid medications, including methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone. While these medications are effective in many cases, new treatments are required to more effectively address the rising societal and interpersonal costs associated with OUD. In this article, we review the opioid and cholinergic systems, and examine the potential of acetylcholine (ACh) as a treatment target for OUD. The cholinergic system includes enzymes that synthesize and degrade ACh and receptors that mediate the effects of ACh. ACh is involved in many central nervous system functions that are critical to the development and maintenance of OUD, such as reward and cognition. Medications that target the cholinergic system have been approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, tobacco use disorder, and nausea. Clinical and preclinical studies suggest that medications such as cholinesterase inhibitors and scopolamine, which target components of the cholinergic system, show promise for the treatment of OUD and further investigations are warranted.,8436)
(Alzheimer's disease (AD) comprises two major pathological hallmarks: extraneuronal deposition of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptides ("senile plaques") and intraneuronal aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau ("neurofibrillary tangles"). Aβ is derived from sequential cleavage of the β-amyloid precursor protein by β- and γ-secretases, while aggregated tau is hyperphosphorylated in AD. Mounting evidence suggests that dysregulated trafficking of these AD-related proteins contributes to AD pathogenesis. Rab proteins are small GTPases that function as master regulators of vesicular transport and membrane trafficking. Multiple Rab GTPases have been implicated in AD-related protein trafficking and their expression has been observed to be altered in postmortem AD brain. Here we review current implicated roles of Rab GTPase dysregulation in AD pathogenesis. Further elucidation of the pathophysiological role of Rab GTPases will likely reveal novel targets for AD therapeutics.,1906)
(Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease characterized by excessive accumulation of the amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) in the brain, which has been considered to mediate the neuroinflammation process. Microglial activation is the main component of neuroimmunoregulation. In recent years, exosomes isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hucMSC-exosomes) have been demonstrated to mimic the therapeutic effects of hucMSCs in many inflammation-related diseases. In this study, exosomes from the supernatant of hucMSCs were injected into AD mouse models. We observed that hucMSC-exosomes injection could repair cognitive disfunctions and help to clear Aβ deposition in these mice. Moreover, we found that hucMSC-exosomes injection could modulate the activation of microglia in brains of the mice to alleviated neuroinflammation. The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in peripheral blood and brains of mice were increased and the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines were decreased. We also treated BV2 cells with hucMSC-exosomes in culture medium. HucMSC-exosomes also had inflammatory regulating effects to alternatively activate microglia and modulate the levels of inflammatory cytokines in vitro.,1334)
(Tissue engineering and the tissue engineering model have shown promise in improving methods of drug delivery, drug action, and drug discovery in pharmaceutical research for the attenuation of the central nervous system inflammatory response. Such inflammation contributes to the lack of regenerative ability of neural cells, as well as the temporary and permanent loss of function associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and traumatic brain injury. This review is focused specifically on the recent advances in the tissue engineering model made by altering scaffold biophysical and biochemical properties for use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. A portion of this article will also be spent on the review of recent progress made in extracellular matrix decellularization as a new and innovative scaffold for disease treatment.,4980)
(Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular disease. However, the precise mechanism underlying the effects of glucose management on brain abnormalities is not fully understood. The differential impacts of glucose alteration on brain changes in patients with and without cognitive impairment are also unclear. This cross-sectional study included 57 older type 2 diabetes patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or normal cognition (NC). We examined the effects of hypoglycemia, postprandial hyperglycemia and glucose fluctuations on regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) and brain atrophy among these patients. In a multiple regression analysis, postprandial hyperglycemia was independently associated with frontal WMH in the AD patients. In addition, postprandial hyperglycemia was significantly associated with brain atrophy, regardless of the presence of cognitive decline. Altogether, our findings indicate that postprandial hyperglycemia is associated with WMH in AD patients but not NC patients, which suggests that AD patients are more susceptible to postprandial hyperglycemia associated with WMH.,5505)
