large520kDamultidomainprotein,causes,spasticataxiaofCharlevoixSaguenayonechildhoodonsetataxias|prominentfeature,bundlingin,manyneuronalpopulations|study,identifies,domains|Peptides,encoding,ubiquitinlikedomainmodifiedneurofilamentassembly|Jdomain,had,oppositeeffects|#Loss of sacsin, a large 520 kDa multidomain protein, causes autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of the Charlevoix-Saguenay, one of the most common childhood-onset recessive ataxias. A prominent feature is abnormal bundling of neurofilaments in many neuronal populations. This study shows the direct involvement of sacsin domains in regulating intermediate filament assembly and dynamics and identifies important domains for alleviating neurofilament bundles in neurons lacking sacsin. Peptides encoding sacsin internal repeat (SIRPT) 1, J-domains, and ubiquitin-like domain modified neurofilament assembly in vivo. The domains with chaperone homology, the SIRPT and the J-domain, had opposite effects, promoting and preventing filament assembly, respectively. In cultured Sacs
Endometrialcancer,isdiagnosedmalignancyin,UnitedStates|carcinomas,represent,approximately310%|observations,implicatePTENinactivationas,driver|exomesequencing,haveuncovered,pathogenicaberrationsinhistotype|analysis,Moreoverresultedin,classificationofendometrioidintofoursubgroupsPOLE|we,discuss,potentialimplicationsforcarcinoma|#Endometrial cancer is the most commonly diagnosed gynecologic malignancy in the United States. Endometrioid endometrial carcinomas constitute approximately 85% of newly diagnosed cases; serous carcinomas represent approximately 3-10% of diagnoses; clear cell carcinoma accounts for <5% of diagnoses; and uterine carcinosarcomas are rare, biphasic tumors. Longstanding molecular observations implicate PTEN inactivation as a major driver of endometrioid carcinomas; TP53 inactivation as a major driver of most serous carcinomas, some high-grade endometrioid carcinomas, and many uterine carcinosarcomas; and inactivation of either gene as drivers of some clear cell carcinomas. In the past decade, targeted gene and exome sequencing have uncovered additional pathogenic aberrations in each histotype. Moreover, an integrated genomic analysis by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) resulted in the molecular classification of endometrioid and serous carcinomas into four distinct subgroups, POLE (ultramutated), microsatellite instability (hypermutated), copy number low (endometrioid), and copy number high (serous-like). In this review, we provide an overview of the major molecular features of the aforementioned histopathological subtypes and TCGA subgroups and discuss potential prognostic and therapeutic implications for endometrial carcinoma. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Pathology: Mechanisms of Disease Volume 14 is January 24, 2019. Please see http://www.annualreviews.org/page/journal/pubdates for revised estimates.
Trichothiodystrophy,belongsto,groupofdiseasescharacterizedbyDNArepairanomalies|Ocularmanifestations,canoccurin,50%ofcasesincludingcataracterrors|patient,iswith,trichothiodystrophy|#Trichothiodystrophy belongs to a group of rare genetic diseases characterized by DNA repair anomalies. Ocular manifestations can occur in 50% of cases, including cataract, refractive errors, strabismus, microcornea, microphthalmia, dry eye, and pigmentary macular changes. We report a case of childhood glaucoma in a patient with trichothiodystrophy who underwent trabeculectomy in the left eye. To our knowledge, this is the first clinical report of childhood glaucoma associated with trichothiodystrophy.
Recentstudies,haveshown,increasingincidence|#Recent studies have shown an increasing incidence of cutaneous adnexal carcinomas (CACs) over the years.
portalperfusion,isbypassedby,portosystemicshunt|livercancer,can,canassociatedwithCAPVS|#Congenital absence of portal vein system (CAPVS) is a rare condition in which portal perfusion is bypassed by portosystemic shunt leading to the development of portal hypertension (PH) or porto-systemic encephalopathy (PSE). Visceral anomalies and liver cancer can be associated with CAPVS
pseudorheumatoiddysplasia,is,bonedisorder|PPRD,is,rare|radiologicalfeatures,clinicallaboratoryof,PPRD|PPRD,isdueto,mutation|diseaseonset,progressesover,timeleading|child,developsinvolvementwithout,systemicinflammation|Genetictesting,shouldstartwith,studyofgenomicDNA|patients,iswith,typicalPPRDfindings|#Progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia (PPRD) is a genetic bone disorder characterised by the progressive degeneration of articular cartilage that leads to pain, stiffness and joint enlargement. As PPRD is a rare disease, available literature is mainly represented by single case reports and only a few larger case series. Our aim is to review the literature concerning clinical, laboratory and radiological features of PPRD. PPRD is due to a mutation in Wnt1-inducible signalling protein 3 (WISP3) gene, which encodes a signalling factor involved in cartilage homeostasis. The disease onset in childhood and skeletal changes progresses over time leading to significant disability. PPRD is a rare condition that should be suspected if a child develops symmetrical polyarticular involvement without systemic inflammation, knobbly interphalangeal joints of the hands, and gait abnormalities. A full skeletal survey, or at least a lateral radiograph of the spine, can direct towards a correct diagnosis that can be confirmed molecularly. More than 70 WISP3 mutations have so far been reported. Genetic testing should start with the study of genomic DNA extracted from blood leucocytes, but intronic mutations in WISP3 causing splicing aberrations can only be detected by analysing WISP3 mRNA, which can be extracted from cultured skin fibroblasts. A skin biopsy is, therefore, indicated in patients with typical PPRD findings and negative mutation screening of genomic DNA.
diabetes,iscommoncomplicationof,acromegaly|we,Hereprovide,characterizationfromDPV|#Although diabetes is a common complication of acromegaly or Cushing´s disease, there are only few detailed studies with a focus on cardiovascular risk, metabolic control or diabetes therapy. Here, we provide a comprehensive characterization from the longitudinal DPV (Diabetes Patienten Verlaufsdokumentation) registry.
rightatrium,Idiopathicenlargementofis,veryrareabnormality|patients,ofonehalfis,48%|symptoms,include,shortnesspalpitationsarrhythmias|We,report,onesuchcaseofmanwithdisproportionallyenlargedrightatrium|echocardiogram,demonstrated,hugerightatrium|Magneticresonanceimaging,confirmedatriomegalywith,initialcompressionofventricle|patient,underwent,surgicalresection|resectedatrium,had,normalwallthickness|#Idiopathic enlargement of the right atrium (IERA) is a very rare abnormality. Approximately one-half (48%) of the patients with a congenital enlargement of the right atrium have no symptoms. When they occur, symptoms include shortness of breath (28% of cases), palpitations (17%), arrhythmias (12%), and in rare cases, right heart failure and extreme tiredness. We report one such case of a young man with a disproportionally enlarged right atrium. The basal transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated a huge right atrium with a thick smoke pattern and mild tricuspid regurgitation in the absence of congenital heart disease. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the right atriomegaly, with initial compression of the right ventricle, and excluded congenital heart defects or absence of pericardium. The patient underwent surgical resection of the right atrial wall and the atriotomy was closed, leaving an atrial chamber of normal consistency and size. The resected atrium had normal and homogeneous wall thickness without significant fibrosis which confirmed the diagnosis of an idiopathic enlargement of the right atrium.
Acuteretinitis,iscondition,hasconsidered|purpose,analyze,causes|#Acute multifocal retinitis is a rare condition that has been considered to be often idiopathic. The purpose of this study was to analyze clinical features and causes of acute multifocal retinitis.
antineutrophilcytoplasmicvasculitis,overlap,syndrome|renaldisease,predominates,organsystem|syndrome,Neurologicmanifestationin,patients|patient,iswith,SLEAAV|patient,iswith,SAH|Neurologicinvolvement,overlap,syndrome|present,consider,associationbetweenSLEAAV|#Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis (AAV) overlap syndrome is an inflammatory disorder with a mixed presentation that is characterized by clinical features of both SLE and AAV. Although renal disease predominates, any organ system in the body may be affected. Neurologic manifestation in patients with SLE-AAV overlap syndrome is rare and has only been previously documented as cerebral ischemia. We report a patient with SLE-AAV overlap syndrome diagnosed based on clinical, serologic and biopsy-proven histologic findings who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) secondary to ruptured right anterior cerebral artery aneurysm. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of SLE-AAV overlap syndrome diagnosed in a patient with a SAH due to an intracranial aneurysm. Neurologic involvement in patients with SLE-AAV overlap syndrome is uncommon and has not been well-studied. Clinicians who encounter patients with neurologic signs that present with symptoms and a serologic profile that correspond to both SLE and AAV criteria, should consider the association between SLE-AAV overlap syndrome and a hemorrhagic stroke, specifically SAH.
Uvealmelanoma,is,commonadultintraocularcancer|livermetastasis,is,commontonaturalhistoryofdiseasemetastasistoeye|we,Herereport,case|patient,was,referred|He,have,newpigmentedtumor|ultrasonography,were,performed|similarcases,have,havedescribed|differentialdiagnosis,included,choroidaltumor|#Uveal melanoma is the most common adult primary intraocular cancer. Although liver metastasis is common to the natural history of the disease, metastasis to the fellow eye is extremely rare. Here we report the case of a 59-year-old man with choroidal melanoma in his right eye who underwent enucleation at a different center. The patient was referred to our service 21 months postoperatively, complaining of decreased vision. He was found to have a new pigmented choroidal tumor in his left eye associated with liver disease. Ocular ultrasonography and liver biopsy with histopathological and immunohistochemical analysis were performed and confirmed the diagnosis. Few similar cases have been described in the literature. The differential diagnosis included primary bilateral choroidal melanoma and metastatic choroidal tumor from a primary skin melanoma.
sepsissurgery,induces,changes|granulocytes,increasein,sepsis|infections,arecomplicationof,surgery|frontlineclinician,assessmentwith,multicolorflowcytometry|#Similarly, to sepsis, cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) induces major changes in leukocyte subsets. Immature granulocytes (IGs) increase both in sepsis and after open-heart surgery. Secondary infections are a major complication of cardiac surgery with CPB. We hypothesized that the assessment of leukocyte subsets with multicolor flow cytometry (FCM) could help the front-line clinician to better identify patients at high risk of infectious complications in this clinical setting.
#To evaluate the association between cervical consistency index (CCI) and the risk of cesarean delivery after planned induction of labor (IOL).
sclerosis,is,connectivetissuedisease|CCNproteins,arefamilyof,proteins|They,have,havealreadyimplicatedinkeyprocessesofSSc|we,discuss,possibleimplicationinSScpathogenesiswithfocusonskinfeatures|article,is,protected|#Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a complex auto-immune connective tissue disease combining inflammatory, vasculopathic and fibrotic manifestations. Skin features, which give their name to the disease and are considered as diagnostic as well as prognostic markers, have not been thoroughly investigated in terms of therapeutic targets. CCN proteins (CYR61/CCN1, CTGF/CCN2, NOV/CCN3, and WISP1-2-3 as CCN4-5-6) are a family of secreted matricellular proteins implicated in major cellular processes such as cell growth, migration, differentiation. They have already been implicated in key pathophysiological processes of SSc, namely fibrosis, vasculopathy and inflammation. In this review, we discuss the possible implication of CCN proteins in SSc pathogenesis, with a special focus on skin features, and identify the potential actionable CCN targets. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
NaturalkillerTcelllymphoma,is,subtype|clinicopathologicalfeatures,areuniqueamong,lymphomas|poorprognosis,isin,absenceofeffectivetreatment|staging,ensure,appropriatetreatmentstrategy|#Natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is a rare subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection. The clinicopathological features of NKTL are unique among lymphomas. NKTL is an aggressive disease with a poor prognosis in the absence of effective treatment. Accurate diagnosis and staging are essential to ensure an appropriate treatment strategy and accurate prognosis of NKTL.
skull,cavernousmalformationsofare,relativelyrarebenigntumors|Knowledge,is,poor|goals,describe,manifestations|We,performed,analysis|incidence,was,1.15%amongentireseriesofintracranialCMs|theirmeanage,was,38.7years|manifestation,Slowlygrowingwas,swelling|Completelesionresection,was,achieved|symptom,resolvedbefore,discharge|meanfollowupperiod,was,76.2months|patient,iswith,petroclivalICM|differentialdiagnosis,isin,caseof|Surgicalresection,should,shouldtreatmentofchoiceforpatients|#Intraosseous cavernous malformations (ICMs) of the skull are relatively rare, benign, and slow-growing tumors. Knowledge of these lesions is poor. The goals of this study were to describe the clinical manifestations, radiological features, and long-term surgical outcomes of this disease. We performed a retrospective analysis of a series of 16 cranial ICM patients who underwent surgical treatment in our hospital between 2003 and 2016. The incidence of cranial ICM was 1.15% among the entire series of intracranial and intraspinal CMs. Our cohort included 6 male and 10 female patients; their mean age at operation was 38.7 years (range, 1.9 to 63 years). Slowly growing swelling was the commonest clinical manifestation of this disease. Complete lesion resection was achieved in all but one patient, and cranioplasty was performed using titanium mesh in 11 cases. Postoperative complication was found in one patient who developed diplopia, and this symptom resolved spontaneously before discharge. The mean follow-up period after operation was 76.2 months (range, 19 to 119 months). Only the patient with petroclival ICM had some occasional headaches (mRS = 1); others were all in stable neurological status (mRS = 0). No lesion recurrence was found during the follow-up period. Although cranial ICM is rare, it should always be considered as a differential diagnosis in the case of firm, gradually enlarging skull lesions. Surgical resection should be the treatment of choice for the symptomatic patients and their long-term outcomes were excellent after gross total removal.
Megapouch,israrecomplicationof,restorativeproctocolectomy|Little,isknownabout,clinicalcharacteristicsofentity|#Megapouch is a rare functional complication of restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis characterized by pouch ± small bowel dilatation with no evidence of obstruction on endoscopy and imaging. Little is known about clinical characteristics and outcomes of this entity.
ModifiedChecklist,isin,Toddlersrevisedfollowup|aim,validate,versioninSpanishpublichealthsystem|MCHATRF,was,translated|15children,werediagnosedwith,ASD|results,aresimilarto,English|study,consider,ASDscreeningprogram|#The Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers-revised/follow-up (M-CHAT-R/F) was developed to reduce the number of cases requiring telephone verification. The aim of this study was to validate a Spanish version of the M-CHAT-R/F in the Spanish public health system. The M-CHAT-R/F was translated, culturally adapted, and then administered to 6625 children. Of the 39 positive screening cases, 15 children were diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 24 with non-ASD disorders or delays. The sensitivity was 0.79 and specificity of 0.99. Positive and negative predictive values were 0.39 and 0.99, respectively. These results are similar to the English equivalent, though observed prevalence was lower. This study supports Spanish National Health System policy makers to consider a universal ASD screening program.
Adamantinomas,are,bonetumors|purpose,investigate,outcomesofpatientswithadamantinoma|#Adamantinomas are rare bone tumors, commonly affecting the tibia. Due to the rare nature of disease, previous studies are small or from multiple centers. The purpose of this study is to investigate outcomes of patients with adamantinoma treated in a single institution.
tumors,developingin,cord|tumors,arisingin,levelwithdiscretehistopathology|We,report,twocases|Magneticresonanceangiography,demonstrated,severestenosisofterminalportionofbilateralcarotidarteries|CranialMRimages,showed,hematomainbasalgangliaperforating|patient,underwentremovalAfter,conservativemanagement|tumor,consistedof,components|extracomponents,were,schwannomarespectively|CraniocervicalMRimages,demonstrated,tumor|tumor,consistedof,majorextradural|extradurallesion,was,meningioma|tumors,be,shouldconsideredintumors|#Concurrent multiple tumors developing in the spinal cord are rare, except for in genetic disorders, such as neurofibromatosis and von Hippel-Lindau disease. Furthermore, concurrent tumors arising in the same spinal level with discrete histopathology are much rarer. We report two such cases. Case 1: A 53-year-old man presented with intracranial hemorrhage that manifested as disturbed consciousness and right hemiparesis. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography demonstrated severe stenosis of the terminal portion of the bilateral internal carotid arteries, implying Moyamoya disease. Cranial MR images showed a hematoma in the left basal ganglia perforating into the lateral ventricle, which was incidentally detected as a spinal tumor compressing the cervical cord at the C2 level. After conservative management for cerebral hemorrhage, the patient underwent total removal of the spinal tumor. Surgical findings showed that the tumor consisted of extra- and intradural components. Histopathological findings showed that the extra- and intradural components were schwannoma and meningioma, respectively. Case 2: A 70-year-old man presented with progressive left hemiparesis and numbness in both lower extremities. Craniocervical MR images demonstrated a paraspinal tumor compressing the spinal cord at C2 level. Surgical findings disclosed that the tumor consisted of major extradural- and minor intradural components. Histopathological study showed that these components had discrete histological findings: extradural lesion was schwannoma and intradural lesion was meningioma. Concurrent tumors with discrete histopathology should be considered in tumors with extra- and intradural components, particularly, when they are located in the high cervical spine.
