Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has been associated with increased toxicity when delivered to early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with a tumor within 2cm of the proximal bronchial tree (PBT). We investigated non-cancer death for these patients as it relates to GTV-proximity to the PBT compared to peripheral tumors.
Radiation causes damage to irradiated tissues and also tissues that do not receive direct irradiation through a phenomenon called bystander effects. Melatonin as a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent is known for protection of normal tissues against ionizing irradiation. In addition, some studies have suggested that Melatonin may have some anti-cancer properties. Although the complete mechanisms remain unknown, it can act via immunomodulatory effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of pretreatment with melatonin on oxidative damage caused by direct irradiation and bystander effects on the lung and heart tissue after xenograft mice colon cancer irradiation in Balb/c mice.
Monitoring socio-economic inequality has become a priority for many governments, especially after the socio-economic changes that followed the 2008 financial crisis. This study aimed at detecting the causes of death with the largest socio-economic inequality in relative and absolute terms in Italy.
The present study examines how trends in the prevalence of asthma during the past three decades associate with hospitalization and mortality during the same period.
To explore the relationship between mouse double minute 2 binding protein (MTBP) and the prognosis of cancer patients, a databank-based reanalysis was conducted and a clinical observation about lung adenocarcinoma was taken to verify the result of data analysis.We reanalyzed all the downloaded data in order to make a conclusion about the relationship between MTBP and the prognosis of cancer patients. At last, we collected 112 lung cancer patients with MTBP information to verify the results of data analysis (GSE30219).The overall Kaplan-Meier curve results of 6 eligible data groups were shown in Fig. 1. The Kaplan-Meier curve result of GSE16011 was shown in Fig. 1A (concordance index = 59.48, Log-Rank Equal Curves [P = 5.942e-05], R = 0.045/1, risk groups hazard ratio = 1.69 [conf. int. 1.3-2.9], P = 7.344e-05), while the stratification results were displayed independently in Figs. 2 and 3. The similar results could be seen in other 5 data groups. The tissue sections of 112 patients with lung adenocarcinoma were collected and immunohistochemically stained. The hyper expression rate of MTBP in adenocarcinoma was 23.21% (26/112). The results showed that patients with hyper expression of MTBP had significantly worse prognosis than the control group, and the survival curves were clearly separated from each other (Fig. 4B, P = .000).Hyper expression of MTBP maybe an adverse event for the survival of some cancer patients, especially in glioblastoma, kidney cancer, and lung cancer patients, which has been verified in 112 lung cancer patients with MTBP status.
