Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death. While cigarette smoking is the primary cause of this malignancy, risk differs across racial/ethnic groups. For the same number of cigarettes smoked, Native Hawaiians compared to whites are at greater risk and Japanese Americans are at lower risk of developing lung cancer. DNA methylation of specific CpG sites (e.g., in AHRR and F2RL3) is the most common blood epigenetic modification associated with smoking status. However, the influence of internal smoking dose, measured by urinary nicotine equivalents (NE), on DNA methylation in current smokers has not been investigated, nor has a study evaluated whether for the same smoking dose, circulating leukocyte DNA methylation patterns differ by race.
There is strong evidence for the effectiveness of addressing tobacco use in health care settings. However, few smokers receive cessation advice when visiting a hospital. Implementing smoking cessation technology in outpatient waiting rooms could be an effective strategy for change, with the potential to expose almost all patients visiting a health care provider without preluding physician action needed.
Lung cancer (LC) screening (LCS) with annual low-dose computed tomography scans has been seen to reduce the specific and overall mortality in selected populations. However, participation is key to successful screening programs. The EDIFICE (etude sur le dépistage des cancers et ses facteurs de compliance [survey on cancer screening and compliance factors]) nationwide observational surveys are used to assess behavior related to cancer screening programs in France.
Although Mycobacterium fortuitum (M. fortuitum) is not an organism rarely isolated from respiratory samples, its clinical importance is still not fully understood, which therefore prompted our current study.
Background: The high prevalence of smokers in Indonesia is also increase the number of people as secondhandsmokers. Secondhand smoke causes many health problems, including cancer. Thus, Indonesia will bear large numbercancer burden of disease, but research on cancer related to secondhand smoking in Indonesia still does not exist.Therefore, this study aimed to determine the number of secondhand smoke attributable fractions (SAFs) of six cancers(lung, bladder, colorectal, stomach, pancreas and larynx) and burden of cancer caused by secondhand smoking inIndonesia using Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) indicator. Material and Methods: This research was usingdescriptive epidemiological prevalence-based research design, with cancers prevalence data gained from Indonesianhealth assurance system database in 2016. The SAFs is calculated by combining both data of secondhand smokingprevalence and relative risk and the DALY indicator is calculated as the sum of years of life lost due to prematuremortality (YLL) and the equivalent healthy years lost due to disability (YLD). Results: Based on SAFs proportion,the highest SAFs among men were in pancreas cancer (80.20%), stomach cancer (79.54%) and laryngeal cancer(69.61%), whereas in women, pancreas cancer (78.95%), stomach cancer (78.26%) and bladder cancer (63.30%).Meanwhile, burden priorities for Indonesian men and woman were lung cancer (110,491), colorectal (68,131), andbladder cancer (39,140). Conclusions: In total, DALYs 6 cancer diseases due to secondhand smoke analyzed in thisstudy were 283,360 DALYs. Thus, the results of the research can be used as a basis for further policies making onnational cigarette prevention and control in Indonesia.
The incidence and mortality from lung cancer is decreasing in the US due to decades of public education and tobacco control policies, but are increasing elsewhere in the world related to the commencement of the tobacco epidemic in various countries and populations in the developing world. Individual cigarette smoking is by far the most common risk factor for lung carcinoma; other risks include passive smoke inhalation, residential radon, occupational exposures, infection and genetic susceptibility. The predominant disease burden currently falls on minority populations and socioeconomically disadvantaged people. In the US, the recent legalization of marijuana for recreational use in many states and the rapid growth of commercially available electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) present challenges to public health for which little short term and no long term safety data is available.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide and global burden could be reduced through targeted application of chemoprevention. The development of squamous lung carcinoma has been linked with persistent, high grade bronchial dysplasia. Bronchial histology improved in former smokers in a chemoprevention trial with the prostacyclin analogue iloprost. ]=Prostacyclin acts through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARg) to reverse epithelial to mesenchymal transition and promote anti-cancer signaling. We hypothesized that the prostacyclin signaling pathway and EMT could provide response markers for prostacyclin chemoprevention of lung cancer. Human bronchial epithelial cells (HBEC) were treated with cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) or iloprost for two weeks, CSC for 16 weeks, or CSC for four weeks followed by four weeks of CSC and/or iloprost, and RNA was extracted. Wild type or prostacyclin synthase transgenic (PGIS) mice were exposed to one week of cigarette smoke or one injection of urethane, and RNA was extracted from the lungs. We measured potential markers of prostacyclin and iloprost efficacy in these models. We identified a panel of markers altered by tobacco carcinogens and inversely affected by prostacyclin, including PPARg, 15pgdh, CES1, Cox-2, Ecadherin, Snail, Vimentin, CRB3, miR-34c, and miR-221. These data introduce a panel of potential markers for monitoring interception of bronchial dysplasia progression during chemoprevention with prostacyclin. Chemoprevention is a promising approach to reduce lung cancer mortality in a high-risk population. Identifying markers for targeted use is critical for success in future clinical trials of prostacyclin for lung cancer chemoprevention.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder with an increased incidence of lung cancer. The emphysema component of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease confers the greatest proportion to lung cancer risk. Although tumors create inflammatory conditions to escape immunity, the immunological responses that control growth of nascent cancer cells in pre-established inflammatory microenvironments are unknown. In this study, we addressed this issue by implanting OVA-expressing cancer cells in the lungs of mice with cigarette smoke-induced emphysema. Emphysema augmented the growth of cancer cells, an effect that was dependent on T cytotoxic cells. OVA-specific OTI T cells showed early signs of exhaustion upon transfer in emphysema tumor hosts that was largely irreversible because sorting, expansion, and adoptive transfer failed to restore their antitumor activity. Increased numbers of PD-L1- and IDO-positive CD11c
Cigarette smoke (CS) is a major risk factor for the development of lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is found in invasive or metastatic phenotypes in lung cancer and COPD. MK-2206, a pan Akt inhibitor, has failed in clinical trials for solid tumors when administered alone at tolerated doses, but it has been shown to have synergistic effects when applied with certain molecular targeted agents. In this study, we investigated the working mechanism of MK-2206 in CS-induced pulmonary EMT both in vivo and in vitro.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is the initial step enabling the metastasis of cancer cells, which often leads to death. Although smoking is a major risk factor for lung cancer, there is still widespread use of conventional cigarettes. Recently, the tobacco industry has been transformed by the introduction of electronic cigarettes (ECs), which have lower levels of carcinogens and may provide a safer alternative. Here, we investigate the ability of EC liquids and aerosols to induce an EMT in A549 lung cancer cells.